content/_index.md, before:


+++
archetype = "home"
+++

![Midori AI photo](https://tea-cup.midori-ai.xyz/download/logo_color1.png)

Welcome to Midori AI — we love helping people build, break, and tinker with machine learning. This is a friendly, experimental space for makers, learners, and teams to explore practical tools, try bold ideas, and ship imperfect prototypes. Come mess with models, experiment loudly, and learn together — we’ll help you every step of the way.

---

## Projects

- **Midori AI Monorepo** — central source for our projects and tooling. GitHub: https://github.com/Midori-AI-OSS/Midori-AI
- **PixelArch OS** — lightweight Arch-based OS optimized for Docker and ML workloads. Learn more: [PixelArch OS]({{< relref "pixelos.md" >}})
- **Carly** — an advanced conversational research project. Learn more: [Carly]({{< relref "about-us/carly-api.md" >}})

---

## What We Offer

- **OS for ML Development:** deployment for larger experiments.
- **Memory & Retrieval Research:** improving external memory and long-term learning for models.
- **Tailored ML Support:** hands-on help for setup, tooling, and workflows. Schedule with Luna: https://zcal.co/lunamidori

---

### Midori AI recommends Linux for optimal performance and security.

{{% notice style="info" title="Platform Recommendation" %}}
While we understand that some users may have specific preferences that seem to necessitate the use of Microsoft Windows, we strongly recommend that users consider transitioning to Linux. 

Linux offers superior privacy, customizability, and support for open-source software.

Midori AI is committed to creating a safe and empowering space for users to explore, learn, and create with ML, while respecting their freedom and time.

Should you encounter any challenges or require assistance with the transition process, please reach out to [Luna Midori](https://zcal.co/lunamidori/move-to-linux). Luna is available to provide guidance and support to help ensure a smooth and successful migration to Linux.

*Please note that while we are happy to assist with the transition to Linux, we will not provide any support for Microsoft Windows systems.*
{{% /notice %}}

---

## Join the Conversation / Support Us

|Check|Us|Out|
|---|---|---|
| [Discord](https://discord.gg/xdgCx3VyHU) | [Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/luna_midori5) | [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCVQo4TxFJEoE5kccScY-xow) |
| [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/TWLunagreen) | [Twitter](https://twitter.com/lunamidori5) | [Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/luna_midori5/) |
| | [PayPal](https://paypal.me/midoricookieclub?country.x=US&locale.x=en_US) | [Email Us](mailto:contact-us@midori-ai.xyz) |

**Where Creativity and Innovation Blossom, Together**

Commit message:

Enhance offerings by adding details about VMs for students, community hangouts, and safe research environment
Signed-off-by: Luna Midori <jaredteam@gmail.com>

content/_index.md, after:


+++
archetype = "home"
+++

![Midori AI photo](https://tea-cup.midori-ai.xyz/download/logo_color1.png)

Welcome to Midori AI — we love helping people build, break, and tinker with machine learning. This is a friendly, experimental space for makers, learners, and teams to explore practical tools, try bold ideas, and ship imperfect prototypes. Come mess with models, experiment loudly, and learn together — we’ll help you every step of the way.

---

## Projects

- **Midori AI Monorepo** — central source for our projects and tooling. GitHub: https://github.com/Midori-AI-OSS/Midori-AI
- **PixelArch OS** — lightweight Arch-based OS optimized for Docker and ML workloads. Learn more: [PixelArch OS]({{< relref "pixelos.md" >}})
- **Carly** — an advanced conversational research project. Learn more: [Carly]({{< relref "about-us/carly-api.md" >}})

---

## What We Offer

- **OS for ML Development:** deployment for larger experiments.
- **Memory & Retrieval Research:** improving external memory and long-term learning for models.
- **Tailored ML Support:** hands-on help for setup, tooling, and workflows. Schedule with Luna: https://zcal.co/lunamidori
 - **VMs for Students:** free virtual machines for high-school students to learn programming, machine learning, and systems work in a safe environment.
 - **Community Hangouts:** regular Discord hangouts for tutorials, office hours, project help, and informal collaboration — join our community to learn together.
 - **Safe Research Environment:** hosted support for larger, ground-breaking projects (for example, Carly) while keeping work open and reproducible so the world can see our process. Learn more about Carly: {{< relref "about-us/carly-api.md" >}}

---

### Midori AI recommends Linux for optimal performance and security.

{{% notice style="info" title="Platform Recommendation" %}}
While we understand that some users may have specific preferences that seem to necessitate the use of Microsoft Windows, we strongly recommend that users consider transitioning to Linux. 

Linux offers superior privacy, customizability, and support for open-source software.

Midori AI is committed to creating a safe and empowering space for users to explore, learn, and create with ML, while respecting their freedom and time.

Should you encounter any challenges or require assistance with the transition process, please reach out to [Luna Midori](https://zcal.co/lunamidori/move-to-linux). Luna is available to provide guidance and support to help ensure a smooth and successful migration to Linux.

*Please note that while we are happy to assist with the transition to Linux, we will not provide any support for Microsoft Windows systems.*
{{% /notice %}}

---

## Join the Conversation / Support Us

|Check|Us|Out|
|---|---|---|
| [Discord](https://discord.gg/xdgCx3VyHU) | [Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/luna_midori5) | [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCVQo4TxFJEoE5kccScY-xow) |
| [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/TWLunagreen) | [Twitter](https://twitter.com/lunamidori5) | [Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/luna_midori5/) |
| | [PayPal](https://paypal.me/midoricookieclub?country.x=US&locale.x=en_US) | [Email Us](mailto:contact-us@midori-ai.xyz) |

**Where Creativity and Innovation Blossom, Together**
