content/howtos/voice_assistance_guide.md, before:

+++
disableToc = false
title = "Voice Assistant HA-OS"
weight = 11
+++

### In this guide I will explain how I've setup my Local voice assistant and satellites!  
A few softwares will be used in this guide.

[HACS](https://hacs.xyz/) for easy installation of the other tools on Home Assistant.  
[LocalAI](https://localai.io/) for the backend of the LLM.  
[Home-LLM](https://github.com/acon96/home-llm) to connect our LocalAI instance to Home-assistant.  
[HA-Fallback-Conversation](https://github.com/m50/ha-fallback-conversation) to allow HA to use both the baked-in intent as well as the LLM as a fallback if no intent is found.  
[Willow](https://heywillow.io/) for the ESP32 sattelites.  


_____

## Step 1) Installing LocalAI

We will start by installing `LocalAI` on our machine learning host.   
I recommend using a good machine with access to a GPU with at least 12 GB of Vram. As `Willow` itself can takes up to 6gb of Vram with another 4-5GB for our LLM model.   I recommend keeping those loaded in the machine at all time for speedy reaction times on our satellites.

**Here an example of the VRAM usage for  `Willow` and `LocalAI` with the `Llampa 8B` model:**
```

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| NVIDIA-SMI 555.42.02              Driver Version: 555.42.02      CUDA Version: 12.5     |
|-----------------------------------------+------------------------+----------------------+
| GPU  Name                 Persistence-M | Bus-Id          Disp.A | Volatile Uncorr. ECC |
| Fan  Temp   Perf          Pwr:Usage/Cap |           Memory-Usage | GPU-Util  Compute M. |
|                                         |                        |               MIG M. |
|=========================================+========================+======================|
|   0  NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3090        Off |   00000000:01:00.0 Off |                  N/A |
|  0%   39C    P8             16W /  370W |   10341MiB /  24576MiB |      0%      Default |
|                                         |                        |                  N/A |
+-----------------------------------------+------------------------+----------------------+

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Processes:                                                                              |
|  GPU   GI   CI        PID   Type   Process name                              GPU Memory |
|        ID   ID                                                               Usage      |
|=========================================================================================|
|    0   N/A  N/A      2862      C   /opt/conda/bin/python                        3646MiB |
|    0   N/A  N/A      2922      C   /usr/bin/python                              2108MiB |
|    0   N/A  N/A   2724851      C   .../backend-assets/grpc/llama-cpp-avx2       4568MiB |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

I've chosen the Docker-Compose method for my LocalAI installation, this allows for easy management and easier upgrades when new relases are available.  
This allows us to quickly create a container running LocalAI on our machine.  

In order to do so, stop by the how to on how to setup a docker compose for LocalAI

[Setup LocalAI with Docker Compose]({{%relref "howtos/by_hand/easy-setup-docker" %}})

Once that is done simply use `docker compose up -d` and your LocalAI instance should now be available at: 
`http://(hostipadress):8080/`
_____

## Step 1.a) Downloading the LLM model

Once LocalAI if installed, you should be able to browse to the "Models" tab, that redirects to ``http://{{host}}:8080/browse``. There we will search for the `mistral-7b-instruct-v0.3` model and install it.

Once that is done, make sure that the model is working by heading to the `Chat` tab and selecting the model `mistral-7b-instruct-v0.3` and initiating a chat. 

![alt text](https://github.com/maxi1134/Home-Assistant-Config/blob/master/assets/ai_guide/chat_example.png?raw=true)

_____

## Step 2) Installing Home-LLM




- 1: You will first need to install the Home-LLM integration to Home-Assistant   
    Thankfuly, there is a neat link to do that easely on [their repo](https://github.com/acon96/home-llm)!

     [Open your Home Assistant instance and open a repository inside the Home Assistant Community Store.](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/hacs_repository/?category=Integration&repository=home-llm&owner=acon96) 

- 2: Restart `Home Assistant`

- 3: You will then need to add the  `Home LLM Conversation` integration to Home-Assistant in order to connect LocalAI to it.
    - 1: Access the `Settings` page.
    - 2: Click on `Devices & services`.
    - 3: Click on `+ ADD INTEGRATION` on the lower-right part of the screen.
    - 4: Type and then select `Local LLM Conversation`.
    - 5: Select the `Generic OpenAI Compatible API`.
    - 6: Enter the hostname or IP Address of your LocalAI host.
    - 7: Enter the used port (Default is `8080`).
    - 8: Enter `mistral-7b-instruct-v0.3` as the `Model Name*`
      - Leave `API Key` empty
      - Do not check `Use HTTPS`
      - leave `API Path*` as `/v1` 
    - 9: Press `Next`
    - 10: Select `Assist` under `Selected LLM API`
    - 11: Make sure the `Prompt Format*` is set to `Mistral`
    - 12: Make sure `Enable in context learning (ICL) examples` is checked.
    - 13: Press `Sumbit`
    - 14: Press `Finish`

![photo](https://github.com/maxi1134/Home-Assistant-Config/blob/master/assets/home_llm_guide/home_llm_installation_video.gif?raw=true)

_____

## Step 3) Installing [HA-Fallback-Conversation](https://github.com/m50/ha-fallback-conversation)


- 1:  Integrate Fallback Conversation to Home-Assistant
  - 1: Access the `HACS` page.
  - 2: Search for `Fallback`
  - 3: Click on `fallback_conversation`.
  - 4: Click on `Download` and install the integration
  - 5: Restart `Home Assistant` for the integration to be detected.
  - 6: Access the `Settings` page.
  - 7: Click on `Devices & services`.
  - 8: Click on `+ ADD INTEGRATION` on the lower-right part of the screen.
  - 8: Search for `Fallback`
  - 9: Click on `Fallback Conversation Agent`.
  - 10 Set the debug level at `Some Debug` for now.
  - 11: Click `Sumbit`
  - 
  
- 2: Configure the Voice assistant within Home-assistant to use the newly added model through the `Fallback Conversation Agent`.
  - 1: Access the `Settings` page.
  - 2: Click on `Devices & services`.
  - 3: Click on `Fallback Conversation Agent`.
  - 4: Click on `CONFIGURE`.
  - 5: Select `Home assistnat` as the `Primary Conversation Agent`.
  - 6: Select `LLM MODEL 'mistral-7b-instruct-v0.3'(remote)` as the `Falback conversation Agent`.


_____

## Step 4) Selecting the right agent in the Voice assistant settings.


- 1:  Integrate Fallback Conversation to Home-Assistant
 - 1: Access the `Settings` page.
 - 2: Click on `Voice assistants` page.
 - 3: Click on `Add Assistant`.
 - 4: Set the fields as wanted except for `Conversation Agent`.
 - 5: Select `Fallback Conversation Agent` as the `Conversation agent`.

_____

## Step 5) Setting up Willow Voice assistant satellites.
Since willow is a more complex Software, I will simply leave [Their guide here](https://heywillow.io/quick-start-guide/).
I do recommend deploying your own Willow Inference Server in order to remain completely local!

Once the Willow sattelites are connencted to `Home Assistant`, they should automatically use your default Voice Assistant.
Be sure to set the one using the fallback system as your favorite/default one!

Commit message:

Add notice about outdated content to Home Assistant and LocalAI guides
Signed-off-by: Luna Midori <jaredteam@gmail.com>

content/howtos/voice_assistance_guide.md, after:

+++
disableToc = false
title = "Voice Assistant HA-OS"
weight = 11
+++

{{% notice style="info" title="Notice" %}}
Midori AI has been unable to reach the author of this page. Please be aware the content may be out of date and could be removed if we cannot contact them.
{{% /notice %}}

### In this guide I will explain how I've setup my Local voice assistant and satellites!  
A few softwares will be used in this guide.

[HACS](https://hacs.xyz/) for easy installation of the other tools on Home Assistant.  
[LocalAI](https://localai.io/) for the backend of the LLM.  
[Home-LLM](https://github.com/acon96/home-llm) to connect our LocalAI instance to Home-assistant.  
[HA-Fallback-Conversation](https://github.com/m50/ha-fallback-conversation) to allow HA to use both the baked-in intent as well as the LLM as a fallback if no intent is found.  
[Willow](https://heywillow.io/) for the ESP32 sattelites.  


_____

## Step 1) Installing LocalAI

We will start by installing `LocalAI` on our machine learning host.   
I recommend using a good machine with access to a GPU with at least 12 GB of Vram. As `Willow` itself can takes up to 6gb of Vram with another 4-5GB for our LLM model.   I recommend keeping those loaded in the machine at all time for speedy reaction times on our satellites.

**Here an example of the VRAM usage for  `Willow` and `LocalAI` with the `Llampa 8B` model:**
```

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| NVIDIA-SMI 555.42.02              Driver Version: 555.42.02      CUDA Version: 12.5     |
|-----------------------------------------+------------------------+----------------------+
| GPU  Name                 Persistence-M | Bus-Id          Disp.A | Volatile Uncorr. ECC |
| Fan  Temp   Perf          Pwr:Usage/Cap |           Memory-Usage | GPU-Util  Compute M. |
|                                         |                        |               MIG M. |
|=========================================+========================+======================|
|   0  NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3090        Off |   00000000:01:00.0 Off |                  N/A |
|  0%   39C    P8             16W /  370W |   10341MiB /  24576MiB |      0%      Default |
|                                         |                        |                  N/A |
+-----------------------------------------+------------------------+----------------------+

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Processes:                                                                              |
|  GPU   GI   CI        PID   Type   Process name                              GPU Memory |
|        ID   ID                                                               Usage      |
|=========================================================================================|
|    0   N/A  N/A      2862      C   /opt/conda/bin/python                        3646MiB |
|    0   N/A  N/A      2922      C   /usr/bin/python                              2108MiB |
|    0   N/A  N/A   2724851      C   .../backend-assets/grpc/llama-cpp-avx2       4568MiB |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

I've chosen the Docker-Compose method for my LocalAI installation, this allows for easy management and easier upgrades when new relases are available.  
This allows us to quickly create a container running LocalAI on our machine.  

In order to do so, stop by the how to on how to setup a docker compose for LocalAI

[Setup LocalAI with Docker Compose]({{%relref "howtos/by_hand/easy-setup-docker" %}})

Once that is done simply use `docker compose up -d` and your LocalAI instance should now be available at: 
`http://(hostipadress):8080/`
_____

## Step 1.a) Downloading the LLM model

Once LocalAI if installed, you should be able to browse to the "Models" tab, that redirects to ``http://{{host}}:8080/browse``. There we will search for the `mistral-7b-instruct-v0.3` model and install it.

Once that is done, make sure that the model is working by heading to the `Chat` tab and selecting the model `mistral-7b-instruct-v0.3` and initiating a chat. 

![alt text](https://github.com/maxi1134/Home-Assistant-Config/blob/master/assets/ai_guide/chat_example.png?raw=true)

_____

## Step 2) Installing Home-LLM




- 1: You will first need to install the Home-LLM integration to Home-Assistant   
    Thankfuly, there is a neat link to do that easely on [their repo](https://github.com/acon96/home-llm)!

     [Open your Home Assistant instance and open a repository inside the Home Assistant Community Store.](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/hacs_repository/?category=Integration&repository=home-llm&owner=acon96) 

- 2: Restart `Home Assistant`

- 3: You will then need to add the  `Home LLM Conversation` integration to Home-Assistant in order to connect LocalAI to it.
    - 1: Access the `Settings` page.
    - 2: Click on `Devices & services`.
    - 3: Click on `+ ADD INTEGRATION` on the lower-right part of the screen.
    - 4: Type and then select `Local LLM Conversation`.
    - 5: Select the `Generic OpenAI Compatible API`.
    - 6: Enter the hostname or IP Address of your LocalAI host.
    - 7: Enter the used port (Default is `8080`).
    - 8: Enter `mistral-7b-instruct-v0.3` as the `Model Name*`
      - Leave `API Key` empty
      - Do not check `Use HTTPS`
      - leave `API Path*` as `/v1` 
    - 9: Press `Next`
    - 10: Select `Assist` under `Selected LLM API`
    - 11: Make sure the `Prompt Format*` is set to `Mistral`
    - 12: Make sure `Enable in context learning (ICL) examples` is checked.
    - 13: Press `Sumbit`
    - 14: Press `Finish`

![photo](https://github.com/maxi1134/Home-Assistant-Config/blob/master/assets/home_llm_guide/home_llm_installation_video.gif?raw=true)

_____

## Step 3) Installing [HA-Fallback-Conversation](https://github.com/m50/ha-fallback-conversation)


- 1:  Integrate Fallback Conversation to Home-Assistant
  - 1: Access the `HACS` page.
  - 2: Search for `Fallback`
  - 3: Click on `fallback_conversation`.
  - 4: Click on `Download` and install the integration
  - 5: Restart `Home Assistant` for the integration to be detected.
  - 6: Access the `Settings` page.
  - 7: Click on `Devices & services`.
  - 8: Click on `+ ADD INTEGRATION` on the lower-right part of the screen.
  - 8: Search for `Fallback`
  - 9: Click on `Fallback Conversation Agent`.
  - 10 Set the debug level at `Some Debug` for now.
  - 11: Click `Sumbit`
  - 
  
- 2: Configure the Voice assistant within Home-assistant to use the newly added model through the `Fallback Conversation Agent`.
  - 1: Access the `Settings` page.
  - 2: Click on `Devices & services`.
  - 3: Click on `Fallback Conversation Agent`.
  - 4: Click on `CONFIGURE`.
  - 5: Select `Home assistnat` as the `Primary Conversation Agent`.
  - 6: Select `LLM MODEL 'mistral-7b-instruct-v0.3'(remote)` as the `Falback conversation Agent`.


_____

## Step 4) Selecting the right agent in the Voice assistant settings.


- 1:  Integrate Fallback Conversation to Home-Assistant
 - 1: Access the `Settings` page.
 - 2: Click on `Voice assistants` page.
 - 3: Click on `Add Assistant`.
 - 4: Set the fields as wanted except for `Conversation Agent`.
 - 5: Select `Fallback Conversation Agent` as the `Conversation agent`.

_____

## Step 5) Setting up Willow Voice assistant satellites.
Since willow is a more complex Software, I will simply leave [Their guide here](https://heywillow.io/quick-start-guide/).
I do recommend deploying your own Willow Inference Server in order to remain completely local!

Once the Willow sattelites are connencted to `Home Assistant`, they should automatically use your default Voice Assistant.
Be sure to set the one using the fallback system as your favorite/default one!
